# AsimovOS
AsimovOS is an Ubuntu-based Linux distro designed specifically for the distributed control of robotic systems. It functions primarily as a mediator and middleware "glue" between various robotics frameworks, the actual computer hardware, and user applications. Now, you may be asking yourself "why do we need yet another Ubuntu derivative? Why not just throw ROS on a couple of computers and call it good?" Well, ROS isn't capable of intelligent fault tolerance and load balancing between multiple computers, while AsimovOS is, thanks to a modified version of dispy. ROS also has no framework in place for portable user applications. AsimovOS supplies an API to application developers that helps hide away all of the messy configuration stuff of the robot's developers and lets them focus on actually building a cool app. These are just some of the various advantages AsimovOS has over other solutions.

## Extension-Driven
AsimovOS is incredibly extensible. Everything is an extension, except for the extension framework itself. Even the client and server are extensions. Each extension can also be easily activated or deactived by either a script or by a simple text file. This enables AsimovOS to be extremely adaptable, as the system can intelligently activate and deactivate extensions based on detected system configuration. For example: if the system detects it is running on a Raspberry Pi, it will enable the GPIO extension and add the various capabilities to the system manifest (more on that later).

## Distributed and Fault-Tolerant
AsimovOS uses a modified version of dispy to both distribute processes and to ensure fault tolerance. The modifications add support for something called "capabilities". These are simple JSON objects that describe the system's basic abilities. Each AsimovOS system (single computer) contains a manifest that collects all of the capabilities registered by extensions on bootup and then registers that manifest with the Asimov Master, so that dispy may use the information to figure out whether a given machine has the capabilities necessary to run a given process. Therefore, dispy is capable of distributing processes to only the computers capable of running them, ensuring processes don't fail because of lack of a specific resource. Dispy (the modified version) has also been redesigned to learn how each process uses resources (memory, I/O, CPU, etc) and is able to pick the best machine for that process.
